Hello Alina, There is a new package not yet available in the distributed iraf system which should address your problem.
 The package is called immatch and is available as addon software from our ftp archive.
  To retrieve and install immatch ftp to 140.252.1.1, login as anonymous, cd to iraf/extern, retrieve the file immatch.readme, and follow the enclosed installation instructions.
The readme file also contains a reference to an ADASS paper which gives an overview of the software, and a brief description of the package tasks. In your case the immatch package task sequence might look like the following.

1. for images which are misaligned by x and y shifts only
a. run the xregister task to register the images spatially
b. run the psfmatch task to match the psfs
c. run the linmatch task to match intensity scales
(this step may or may not be desirable depending on the project)

2. for images which are misaligned in orientation and scale
a. run the geomap and geotran tasks to register the images spatially
b. run the psfmatch task to match the psfs
c. run the linmatch task to match intensity scales
(this step may or may not be desirable depending on the project)
The psfmatch task does the psf matching using fourier techniques and the image data itself
(e.g. a high signal-to-noise bright star in each image)
or pre-computed psfs (e.g computed by the daophot psf / seepsf tasks)
or by using a precomputed convolution kernel.
In all cases psfmatch uses the lowest common denominator approach, i.e. the reference image should be the one with the poorest resolution and everything else it blurred to that resolution.

The images should be registered spatially before psfmatch is used. Quick psf matching can also be done with existing iraf tasks as follows:

1. determine the fwhm of the psf of your images with the imexamine task and select the one with the poorest resolution to be the reference image.
2. assume that the psfs of all the images are gaussian (don't know how good this approximation really is but imexamine should tell you)
3. use the gauss task to deblur everything to the resolution of the reference image by setting the sigma of the gaussian to be sigma(gaussian) ** 2 = sigma (ref image) ** 2 - sigma (image) ** 2for each image.

I would encourage you to try one or both of these techniques. If
you decide to use the immatch software be sure and let me know if you have
any problems with or questions about the software, as your sort of problem
is exactly what the software was designed to tackle.

Best wishes,
Lindsey Davis